you can't make another person happy you
literally cannot control their emotional
experience notice also that you probably
can't even control your emotional
experience 100% we all have bad days and
not like everybody's like cool sign me
up for three bad days in a row and then
I'll have two good ones like we cannot
manage our own emotional experience and
then you go and try to manage somebody
else's think about it for a second you
think that your happiness is dependent
on something that you can't control
which makes you feel totally
disempowered there's no way that you can
feel good in a life where your happiness
is out of your control 100% of the time
in this video we're going to talk about
three signs that you are confusing
codependence with love my name is Joe
Hudson I'm a former venture capitalist
who now coaches some of the most notable
names in Silicon Valley so the
interesting thing is when we find
somebody that we're attracted to whether
it's a lover or just a friend we're
attracted to somebody who's in
themselves who feels empowered who's
living the life that they want to live
and that's what we're attracted to but
then in relationship sh over time we
start abandoning ourselves and we start
running away from who we are to make the
other person happy and that's
codependence not only does it erode the
attraction that somebody felt for you
because you're no longer in your power
but it also erodes your sense of
self so the first one is that you think
you have to be a certain way to get love
if you are actually being loved because
you're a certain way and not being
yourself you're not actually being loved
think about that for a second so if you
have to present something to be loved
then they are loving what you are
presenting they're not actually loving
you for who you are and the thing about
that is that it is crazy destructive it
is this feeling of I can't be loved for
who I am which really means that I'm not
loving myself for who I am and it's
really hard to love somebody who doesn't
love themselves it's a real complicated
mess and we've all done it we all know
what it's like to try to love somebody
who's constantly not loving themselves
it's like dragging an anchor it's just
the whole time it's really difficult and
so when you are presenting yourself
you're making it really difficult for
the other person to love you and that is
part of the thing of codependence it's
that when you are codependent it makes
it really hard for the other person to
love you so the second way that you know
that you're mistaking codependence for
love is that you're scared to tell your
truth this is the way it looks oh if I
say that they will get angry if I say
that they will fall apart part and then
they'll just be worthless or if I say
that they'll be so disappointed and
they'll get depressed anything like that
basically says your emotions are more
important than my truth and what's even
worse about it is that by protecting
them from your emotions you're telling
them that they're not capable you're
telling them that they're not strong
you're telling them they need to be
caretaking for them to be okay so you're
not only making them disempowered you're
also making yourself disempowered
by saying that my truth can't be handled
and it's an amazing thing it's just like
a disempowerment thing that happens when
codependence gets there and it's why
marriages where there's a heavy
codependence everybody starts feeling
more and more disempowered until finally
they're like I just got to get out of
here I need a place where I can feel
like I'm myself again like I can make
something happen in the world again
where I can have influence again because
every time I come home I feel like I
can't speak my
truth I had a client that was in a
marriage and they had stopped speaking
their truth everything was about
managing the other person's emotions I
can't say that cuz they'll get upset or
I can't say that because they'll lose
their [__] or whatever was happening and
the marriage was just dying the sex was
just going away everything was just dead
it was like walking into a room that was
a library and the only thing that people
could read was like the dictionary it
was
like and so the goal of this person was
just to speak their truth whatever had
to happen to speak their truth be gentle
be kind but speak their truth and they
started to do it and the marriage
started to recover and then the other
partner in the marriage started to do it
and then it even got faster and faster
and it literally only took like three or
four months of everybody speaking their
truth with gentleness that the marriage
could recover because the codependence
started falling apart and people started
realizing in this marriage marriage that
my truth and being seen for who I am is
more important than saving the marriage
it's more important than stopping the
person from feeling upset because if
they can't see me they can't love me and
if they can't see me they don't know if
this marriage is right so I have to show
up to be myself and in that came the
freedom that allowed them to love their
marriage again the final way you can see
that you're confusing codependence with
love is that you think their happiness
will lead to your happiness you think
that if you manage their life and you
make them happy that you will become
happy and have you noticed you've been
doing it probably for years and it
hasn't freaking worked there's no way
that you can feel good in a life where
your happiness is out of your control
100% of the time because their happiness
is out of your control 100% of the time
it is that sinking feeling in the bottom
of your tummy that says hey I can't be
happy because of somebody else it's a
very disempowering
feeling so typically the way we get that
idea is because early on in life we
thought that our parents happiness would
translate into our
happiness and notice that it never did
we never really could control our
parents' happiness either and even if
they were happy it didn't particularly
mean that we were happy and it's the
same thing in a marriage or in a
relationship so what's a much more
effective approach is to learn how to be
with a person's emotion without trying
to change it because when you try to
change somebody else's emotion what
happens is they start to resent you they
say hey look I can take care of myself I
don't need you to take care of me and so
there's this resentment because you're
disempowering them and so it's much
better to just say hey I can be with you
you're angry it's okay I'll be with you
you're sad it's okay I'll be with you
and it's a far more empowering thing for
you it's a far more empowering thing for
them and it totally stops the
codependence and it's really easy to see
it often times you see somebody get sad
and 10 people be like it's okay and that
never [__] makes it okay it never makes
it okay but if you see somebody they're
sad and you just go yeah I get it I'm
right here with you man I'm right
here that's all that's ever necessary
try it out sometime it's amazing so with
those three things identify the main
thing here is that codependence is not
love and we mistake it we say oh we're
not loving unless we're taking care of
the other person and trying to make them
happy we're not loving if we say
something that hurts them but their hurt
it's not in our control their happiness
is not in our control Real Love is
loving yourself so that you can love
another person
fully all right so if you like the video
feel free to subscribe or tell us what
else you want us to make videos on in
the comments below and you can always
just watch the next video
[Music]